Detailed Plan of the Website Components and Functionality
Let's break down the UI seen in the video (and hinted at in the HTML).
I. Main Layout (App Shell)
Structure: A full-viewport container.
Left Pane (Editor Panel): Fixed width, scrollable.
Right Pane (Preview Panel): Flexible width, contains the resume preview.
HTML (Conceptual):
<div class="app-container">
  <div class="editor-panel">
    <!-- Editor content will go here -->
  </div>
  <div class="preview-panel">
    <!-- Preview content will go here -->
  </div>
</div>
Use code with caution.
Html
Styling:
app-container: display: flex, height: 100vh.
editor-panel: width: 40% (approx.), overflow-y: auto, padding, background color (light gray/off-white).
preview-panel: flex-grow: 1, padding, background color (slightly darker gray or textured).
II. Editor Panel (.editor-panel)
A. Editor Header:
Elements:
Logo: Top-left. An SVG or image. (e.g., div.logo-container > img)
Resume Score:
Progress Bar: A thin horizontal bar at the very top, color-coded (e.g., red for low, orange, green for high). Width dynamically set by score.
Text: "XX% Your resume score" and "+X% Add [suggestion]" (e.g., "+10% Add job title").
"Change template" Button (Top Right of Editor Panel in some views, or in Preview Panel Header): This button is crucial.
Position: Visually distinct, often styled as a primary action.
Function: Switches the entire view to the Template Selection/Customization View.
Styling: Flexbox for alignment, specific fonts and colors.
Logic: Resume score updates dynamically as the user fills fields.
B. Form Sections Container (div.form-sections):
This will hold all the individual input sections.
Structure: Each section (Personal Details, Employment, etc.) will be an "accordion" item.
Header: Section title (e.g., "Personal details"), an optional info icon/tooltip, and an expand/collapse arrow.
Body: Contains the input fields for that section. Collapsible.
C. Personal Details Section:
Header: "Personal details".
Helper Text: "Users who added phone number and email..."
Input Fields:
Job Title: Text input. Placeholder: "The role you want". (Updates resume score).
Upload Photo:
Placeholder icon and "Upload photo" text.
Function: Opens a file dialog. On selection, shows a preview and allows cropping/adjustment (advanced). For simplicity, just display the image.
First Name: Text input. (e.g., value="manus")
Last Name: Text input. (e.g., value="ai" initially, then Das)
Email: Email input. (e.g., value="rontud203@gmail.com")
Phone: Phone input. (e.g., value="0982309480329")
Address: Text input. (e.g., value="anflkn")
City / State: Text input.
Country: Text input.
"Add more details" Link/Toggle:
Function: When clicked, expands to show more fields (Postal Code, Driving License, Place of Birth, Date of Birth, Nationality). Clicking again ("Hide additional details") collapses them.
Additional Fields (Initially Hidden):
Postal Code: Text input.
Driving License: Text input.
Place of Birth: Text input.
Date of Birth: Date input (or text with placeholder MM/DD/YYYY).
Nationality: Text input.
Logic: All inputs update the state, which in turn updates the resume preview.
D. Employment History Section (Repeatable):
Header: "Employment History". Helper text.
Entry Block (Repeatable Structure):
Title: "(Not specified)" or Job Title if filled. Collapsible.
Controls:
Collapse/Expand Arrow.
Delete Icon (Trash Can):
Function: Opens a confirmation modal ("Delete Entry", "Are you sure...", "Don't ask me again" checkbox, "Delete", "Cancel" buttons). If "Delete" is clicked, removes this employment entry.
Drag Handle Icon: For reordering entries.
Input Fields (when expanded):
Job Title: Text input.
Employer: Text input.
Start & End Date: Two date inputs (MM/YYYY format). A "?" icon next to the label for help.
A "Currently work here" checkbox/toggle can disable the End Date and set it to "Present".
City: Text input.
Description: Rich Text Editor (Bold, Italic, Underline, Strikethrough, Bullet List, Numbered List, Link).
Placeholder: "e.g. Created and implemented lesson plans..."
"Get help with writing" / AI Writer button:
Function: Opens a modal/popover with AI suggestions ("Add job title, company name... to generate...", "Generate" button, "Add pre-written phrases"). Clicking the "x" on the popover closes it.
"Add one more employment" Button:
Function: Adds a new, empty Employment History entry block to the form.
Logic: Handles an array of employment objects in the state. Each input updates the corresponding object in the array. Reordering changes the array order.
E. Education Section (Repeatable):
Structurally and functionally very similar to Employment History.
Input Fields: School, Degree, Start & End Date, City, Description.
"Add one more education" button.
F. Skills Section (Repeatable):
Header: "Skills". Helper text.
"Don't show experience level" Toggle:
Function: Hides/shows the level selector for all skills.
Suggested Skills Area: Buttons with skill names (e.g., "Python +", "C++ +", "JavaScript +").
Function: Clicking a button adds that skill to the list below with a default level (e.g., Expert).
Skill Entry Block (Repeatable Structure):
Title: Skill name and Level (e.g., "Java Expert"). Collapsible.
Controls: Delete icon, Drag handle.
Input Fields (when expanded):
Skill: Text input (e.g., value="Java").
Level: A visual slider/segmented control with 5 levels (e.g., Novice, Beginner, Skillful, Experienced, Expert).
"Add one more skill" Button:
Function: Adds a new, empty Skill entry block.
Logic: Manages an array of skill objects in the state.
G. Professional Summary Section:
Header: "Professional Summary". Helper text.
Input Field: Large Rich Text Editor.
"Pre-written phrases" Button:
Function: Opens a modal/drawer on the right.
Search/Filter input: "Filter phrases by keyword and job title".
List of phrases, categorized (e.g., "MOST POPULAR"). Each phrase is clickable.
Clicking a phrase inserts it into the rich text editor.
A "back" arrow or close button for the phrase list.
Character Count: (e.g., "514 / 600"). A visual indicator (e.g., a smiley face) might change based on length.
H. Add Additional Sections Page/View:
Header: "Add Additional Sections". Helper text.
Buttons/Icons for Sections:
Custom Section
Courses
Extra-curricular Activities
Internships
Hobbies
Languages
References
Function: Clicking any of these adds the corresponding section to the main form flow and navigates to it.
I. Languages Section (Repeatable - example of an "Additional Section"):
Header: "Languages".
Language Entry Block (Repeatable):
Language name, Level. Collapsible.
Delete, Drag Handle.
Input Fields:
Language: Text input (e.g., value="English").
Level: Dropdown/Select (e.g., "Native speaker", "Highly proficient", "Very good command", "Good working knowledge", etc.).
"Add one more language" Button.
J. Hobbies Section (example of an "Additional Section"):
Header: "Hobbies".
Input Field: Text area or simple text input. Placeholder: "e.g. Skiing, Skydiving, Painting".
(No complex repeatable structure here, just a single text block).
K. Editor Footer:
"Back" Button: Navigates to the previous section.
Progress Dots: Small dots, current section's dot is highlighted.
"Next: [Section Name]" Button (e.g., "Next: Employment History", "Next: Education", "Finish"): Navigates to the next section or finalizes.
Logic: These control the current "step" or active section in the editor.
III. Preview Panel (.preview-panel)
A. Preview Header:
"Change template" Button: (Same as in editor header). Position: Often top-left of this panel.
"Download PDF" Button:
Position: Top-right.
Function: Triggers PDF generation of the current resume preview.
B. Resume Canvas (canvas.sc-halPKt in your HTML, but you'll use HTML elements):
Function: This is where the resume is visually rendered based on the data in the state and the selected template.
This is NOT an actual <canvas> element for drawing pixels in the traditional sense for this kind of app. It's a styled div that looks like a document. Resume.io uses <canvas> for rendering the PDF preview, which is an advanced step. For your replication, start with styled HTML elements.
Content: Dynamically generated HTML reflecting the resume sections (Name, Contact, Profile, Employment, Skills, etc.).
Styling: Crucial. Each template will have its own CSS for fonts, colors, layout, spacing, columns, etc.
Zoom/Fit Controls (sometimes present): Buttons to zoom in/out or fit to page. (The video shows a "full screen" icon sc-kBIGSu cifDYK).
C. Preview Footer:
"Saved" Status: Text, possibly with a checkmark icon. (Indicates data is saved, perhaps to local storage for your version).
Page Navigation: "< 1 / 1 >" (If the resume spans multiple pages in the preview).
IV. Template Selection / Customization View (Full-Screen Modal or View Swap)
Triggered by: "Change template" button.
Structure:
A. Left Sidebar (Template Controls):
Tabs: "Templates", "Aa Text", "Layout".
Templates Tab (Default):
Accent Color Picker: A row of colored circles. Clicking one changes the accent color of the previewed resume. A "+" icon allows picking a custom color (opens a color picker UI).
Template Thumbnails: Scrollable list of resume template designs (e.g., "Toronto", "Stockholm", "New York", "Vienna", "Sydney", "London", "Dublin", "Moscow"). Each thumbnail shows a mini preview.
Function: Clicking a thumbnail selects that template and updates the main resume preview on the right. The selected template is highlighted.
PDF/DOCX labels on thumbnails.
Aa Text Tab:
Primary Font: Dropdown (e.g., "IBM Plex Sans").
Secondary Font: Dropdown (e.g., "IBM Plex Mono").
Size Slider: (S, M, L markers).
Spacing Slider: (Percentage).
Note: The video shows a message "This template does not support font customization" for some, indicating this feature is template-dependent.
Layout Tab:
Format Dropdown: (e.g., "A4 (8.27" x 11.69")").
Note: Also template-dependent.
B. Main Area (Resume Preview): Same as the preview panel in the editor view, but reflects changes from the template controls.
C. Header/Toolbar for this View:
"Back to editor" Button: Position: Top-left. Function: Closes template view and returns to the main editor.
"Download PDF" Button: (Same as in editor).